Good. Um, let me turn on the recorder devices.
This is the Open Global Mind weekly call for Thursday, September 4th, 2025.
On the first 30 days of every month, we do a check-in call, where we have.
Funky little check-in routine that I think most everybody… I think everybody who's here has done before, but I'll just repeat it briefly.
I am not going to be a traffic cop during check-in. Everybody just sort of volunteers to step forward and check in only once, please, no comments back and forth.
Uh, we have a moratorium on chat while we're checking in, so please don't use the chat, but you can save stuff in your chat, just don't hit enter.
Um, and then once everybody's gone once, I'll step in and we'll go to usual sort of salon mode.
And then, free-for-all in the chat is okay. Um, during check-in mode, we like pauses, so quiet moments are not awkward moments, they're moments like quicker meeting, where you're appreciating.
The moment, or the people, or the setting, or whatever you'd like to appreciate.
Uh, that works great. That's one of the reasons we developed this check-in mode, was to have some quiet.
Even while we're busy, like, Zooming and all that. And, um… And don't empty your brain of everything that's on your mind. Try to be moderately brief so that we can get through check-ins and get to conversations, so…
Check in on something sort of OGM-y that's in your head, that's, uh… that's with you, um… But don't tick off, like, the list of things you've banked for the week that you wanted to tell everybody at OGM about. That's a little…
Usually that's a little too long. With that, I'm going to mute my mic.
And whoever would like to, uh, can step in. And, uh, we'll be off and running.
Rick, do you have a thought… thought? Or a question?
Nope, I just heard some noise from your mic. Sean, I just explained the check-in routine, which I think you're familiar with, correct?
Not hearing Sean yet, but we shall see. Um, alright, I will mute, and whoever would like to go first, take your time.
And, uh, go first.
Well, I'll go. People on this list know.
Was in the heart of Helene in Suwanoa. Which was the part of the impact.
And we gave up on FEMA and have moved to an apartment in the River Arts District.
But, um… And my kids might be able to create what they want out of the.
Land that's behind, but we can't think about it. But I met this morning with a woman who leads the.
The outside, the safety net. Work. Uh, she got some funding, and they have.
7 people that work with Suanova Cares. A lot of Latinos, 3 of them used to clean Airbnbs, but they were community leaders, and now they're paid to be.
Sort of social workers in that space, and I… but it was great, because I wanted to know… so she finally had to give up and take a couple weeks in the south of France and get away from the sadness.
Our devastation remains, and we're a low-status neighborhood, and they're not doing anything. And the county.
And nothing is happening. And, um…
So, but she went back to it, and so I wanted to meet with her and say, how are you doing this?
She explained that's who she is, and it turns out that.
There is some money to create a third place. And some of that is coming into here, and I can help her.
Organize the capital around. You know, she has a nail salon, and there's.
The renting a quick stop, and, you know, there is no place people gather. Eleanor Offeram said.
If… watersheds can be managed 47% better by ranchers than by the government.
If they have a place where they meet regularly and have informal conversations, and the… not treaties, but the… the…
The relationships up and downstream are transparent. And we have nothing like that. There's no grocery store, it's gone, the post office is gone, the hardware store is gone, all the restaurants are gone. So.
Creating that, and then trying to stop the land rush of folks, you know, we're the… before the flood, we were $100,000 less per house.
And we were, uh, $300 less per rent. And so, um… Anyway, it's really neat to… there's a certain place I can be.
Working with the people, working with the people with the problems, but if I'm down there, I'm really terrible.
And can't stand the sadness. She can stand the sadness, and so it was really encouraging.
That, you know, oh, there's a place for me to be able to look at someone else, because I, you know, it's… We lost a million bucks on the land and house, and so…
It's hard to think about, but um… It's a way to think about it, and I'm going to work on a thing with my kids, and so…
I'm really glad to not be immersed in that sad place. We're in the arts district, and the artists.
Are determined to. Work in these live-work lofts and sell, and so they're…
Coming back in the places that weren't totally flooded, and it's not sad.
And with these trauma areas, you just… you know, some people can be around the sad for a long time and live with it, and I couldn't do it.
So anyway, it's a little bit encouraging, even though, uh. It's a neglected, low-status area, and people have forgotten about Helene.
But, you know, nobody relies on the federal government anymore, so… We have that, but there are ways to invest without the federal government, uh, through.
Community investment funds in land, so we're looking to… It's just great to, you know, I can actually think about doing what I do without having to be down in where it's… it's just too sad to go.
To where I used to live, because it. You know, gardens covered by sand dunes.
Not to respond to Kevin, but, um… Kevin, hearing what you said reminds me of stories I've seen this week about New Orleans.
Uh, and how… And how much has not been recovered.
Since their devastation, what, 10 years ago now? 20. Cheaper. 20.
Mm-hmm.
20. Yeah. Low-status neighborhoods, after the emergency stuff. Leaves are still low status. You know, that's the thing. It's the low status that doesn't change.
Um, we're trying to prevent conversation during this part of check-in.
Yeah. So there's…
Alright, but… But I appreciate this.
Right, yeah, anyway, yeah. Low status remains.
We're not… we're not… we're not conversing, we're just sharing observations.
But, yeah. Um… A friend of mine from me, besides… well, I guess I'll say two things.
At the national level, I'm really struck by the conversation of people who say.
It's all over, nobody's doing anything. Quote, nobody's doing anything, it's a meme that I hear a lot. And in fact, there's lots of people doing lots of stuff, and various, you know, Heather Cox Richardson and others are chronicling that.
Um, I'm… glad to see… glad to see the state's rights focus shifting to the blue states now, as Washington, Oregon.
California, Illinois, and so forth are starting to mount. A different level of resistance.
Um, in personal terms, it's been a… it's been a very body-focused week for me this week. I fell on Sunday and, quote, sustained a concussion.
As they say. Yeah, and I'm okay. It was mild. Um, you know, no cracks in my head, no bleeds, etc.
I learned that if you're over 65 and you fall, or if you're on auto… if you're on anticoagulants and you fall, you go to the ER, period, even if you feel fine.
So, learned that one. But the protocol, there's a concussion is not a clinical diagnosis, it's a… it's a, you know, symptomatic diagnosis, and the deal is that you have to rest.
Uh, and if you don't rest, your body will enforce the rest.
Um, and the major advisory is to stay off screens. Uh, and mental stimulation, which screens for a vivid kind, because there's lots of sensory input, and man, that's hard to do!
In this modern life. You know, so I've… I've done it a lot, and I'm much more… much less engaged, but it's hard…
For me, it's hard to be completely unplugged. Um, I had a fairly busy day Tuesday, um…
Lots of coaching, and coached a client on an acquisition, and coached a client on a career development, and coached a client on, um… product launch and new positioning for companies, like, you know, engaged on the calls, full-on, full presence.
And then just wiped out afterwards. Just, like, wiped out. Yeah, you know, just have to sit down for a couple hours and close my eyes and not do anything, which is…
I noticed that my normal recourse when I relax. Is to pick up this thing and scroll.
It's like, nope, don't do that. So it's been very, very humbling and grounding, in a way, to just sort of be back in touch with the rhythms of the body and learn how that works, and um…
Um… there was some conclusion about that. Um…
Yeah, just, you know, running at a very different pace this week.
So, that's… that's what I have to say for now.
So I can, uh, I can jump in, go next. Um… I think many of you know that I'm not on these calls too much. I typically have a work.
Meeting that, uh, canceled today to be able to join, and uh… I live in Washington, D.C, and it feels like…
Um, there's some people paying attention to what is going on.
Uh, in DC, but I also feel like since Elon has left.
Sort of a side effect of him in not engaging is some of the attention that he… maybe… maybe some of the outrage that he drew.
Is it's not there as much when they're just continues to be, you know, thing after thing after thing after thing, attacks.
Um, what I would call a tax on the federal government.
People that have given their lives, careers to… government service, whether those services are delivered.
Uh, you know, to the levels that we all want is another story, but these people are… you know, putting their heart and soul into the missions of the government.
You guys may not know that there's a government shutdown coming at the end of September, and most people think that the government will shut down.
Uh, just because it's such a heightened political… environment. Um, there's a couple of options that could happen. One could be a partial shutdown, where they figure out budgets for certain agencies, or it could be a complete shutdown.
Of course, even with a complete shutdown, people that are deemed, or positions, or roles, or missions that are deemed essential.
Keep working, so then there's this whole process of figuring out who should get the label of essential.
And then, what are those rest of the people, like, hey, you're not essential?
Banks, um… So, our company does consulting for the federal government so that, uh, potentially will be an impact for us, but.
But probably not, uh, for reasons I won't go into. Um, on a personal note, my daughter is entering her sophomore year at NYU.
And so we dropped her off, uh, she is in film school, uh, which, on the one hand, is like, um.
You know, top jobs that will be replaced by AI, although I'd say that in jest because… and she and I had talked about this, and I said the… The world needs storytellers, and whether you're using AI tools or…
You know, holding a camera, or painting with a brush, you know, that there's still… there's still… room and needs for storytelling, and I think at some point, I think most of us think there'll be a…
Um… what's the word? Appreciation for authentic art. I think even already we're getting so sick of.
Ai-generated stuff, so I think, uh, I'm excited. I think she'll be at… if her current interests continue, she'll be a documentarist, uh, so that… that will be interesting. She's interested in all kinds of things.
Um, interesting, as a film… school student, she watches very few movies, um, so she loves Broadway shows, she loves being in the theater, um, she watches.
Some episode TV, um, but not a lot of long-form movies, which I think is kind of interesting.
Um, so I'm dropping her off in New York City, we're there, uh, we're there, uh, periodically through the year, and just reminded the energy level of New York.
Is just unmatched. The people mixing in all walks of life, all economic statuses commingled.
Um, instructed me about DC. Which has been labeled as this crime-ridden city, which it's not. Uh, New York, uh, gets similar labels.
And I think people that are outside these cities. Just hear the headlines, and they just buy the headlines, and that's just sort of been something I've been thinking about. Certainly, there are…
Crime… high crime areas of every city, but there's also. Concentrations of artists and musicians and restaurants and food and creativity, so…
Um, as with everything in life, it's a mixed… it's a mixed bag.
Um… So yeah, I think for me, I just continue to try to…
Limit sources, you know, feeds of information, try to be more selective, pick and choose the things that I want to ingest, and then try to reflect on them, and… and see what… try to… try to have clarity on my views of topics and things that are not just headline… headline-driven.
Um… So yeah, I think I'll, uh, I'll wrap it up there.
Yeah, maybe I… I'll follow. Um, I've been, um…
So focused on the, uh, on the foot part of the economy.
And, you know, pretty much on a meta level, because I've worked.
I'm on the, uh… advisory team for federal policy for the Sierra Club, for example, now Farm Bill Policy, and…
The citizen climate lobby, and uh… Um, the ALQA organization, so I've been, uh.
Closely tracking, you know, what is happening policy-wise. And… and try to… to have some influence on this and provide, you know, some, some…
Feedback that, um, hopefully is helpful, but… So from that position, I've stepped way back, because I'm just…
Feeling, um, it's a complete waste of time. The Sarah Club.
Team to Washington, lobby team, and you talk to. Members of Congress who just cashed a half-million dollar check from some lobbyist, and then the sales rep shows up, and.
Have an opinion, you know what I mean? It's just… it's just, uh, hopeless.
Um, but what really strikes me is… the… the destructiveness of this current administration.
Um, because the food system is a massive contributor to environmental degradation.
Um, not just… not just carbon emissions, but the… not the… pollution of water tables.
Of watersheds, or chemicals, uh, overloading the natural environment. I mean, it's just a horror show.
Um, and the scale of it is absolutely incredible, and the scale is increasing. I mean, they're doubling down on.
On these practices that are so… that are so harmful to.
The entire, uh, ecology, the, you know, the, uh… biode system.
So, I've been working with AI now to build up an intelligence.
That, uh, that can assist, you know, to, uh. To create a transition from.
From this current industrial system. Into a more regenerative form of functioning.
You know, generating food and calling and raising food. Um, and because of, you know, my background, um.
I… and… and, you know, some… really training I got with Jean, working with Jean Bellingsher for the last…
6 years or so, and I'm really thinking through… Uh, on… on what this all means from a systems perspective.
You know, from the farmer to the consumer, and the entire.
Supply chain in between. You know, the AI.
That we have, you know, I'm not allowed to say training, but configured, was actually a funny thing.
My AI objected to me, saying that I'm training it. No, no, you are… this is a configuration process, not a training process. Okay, fine, whatever, but…
We… I mean, I have… you know, configured now 6 agents that.
Starting this to farmers, that are going through… the moving… moving product from the farm.
To the… to the market, and then the market and so on anyway.
It's, uh, it's a… it's a total systems reconfiguration process. And it's very difficult to get traction, because the…
The, uh, regenerative movement is so splendid, you know, you have so many groups everywhere doing something.
And they're all doing good work, but… It's not scalable, it's self-contained, it doesn't share.
You know, learnings in an organized fashion. So that's, you know, where I've been…
Hoping to, to, to engage. Because the AI that… the way this thing can work is.
That you don't need to have, like, a massive database. If we can get anybody who wants to work within the regenerative frame.
To just use a few key words in their website, you know, in their, in their… materials, the AI will find you, right? So if we are working within, let's say.
A bioregion. Let's say a community high desert of bends, or anywhere, really.
Um, anyone who wants to participate just needs to, say, put some keywords out there.
And the AI will find you, know what you're doing. So anyway, I'm… I finally got our first project here. It's a group called Aqua Regenerations.
Um, I'm… I'm… Hopefully not violating any rules here, Jerry, but here is the…
The group that we're working with, so we actually have our kickoff meeting later today.
Um, they already… this is another scrappy startup. Um, they are highly ambitious in a way of, uh.
Creating tools to assist small farmers, and they are headquartered in Kenya.
They currently have 40 locations, uh. With groups of farmers signed up.
And, uh, we decided to partner where I provide the back of house, uh, the intelligence system.
Also my own skill set, really, because I need to guide them into.
What type of data they need to source from these farmers and from the farm support, uh, supporting.
Corpse, so that we can then work with this, but… Um, it's… it's a, you know, a generative system transformation. They are… they are appealing to the United Nations and to.
I mean, corpse linked to the UN and others to, uh… get funding, so we are, you know, doing a joint funding launch.
So we'll see where that goes, but… The… the challenge that I see, really, is that the industrial sector, where the money really sits, is doubling down and doing the same damn thing.
Just with more emphasis. You know, did you see the same thing that you see in the energy sector?
Where they're cutting out mint and solar and batteries and all.
You see the same in food now. Where we are saying you need to stop taking… using these GMO seeds, you need to stop using all these chemicals to grow food.
And they're doing the opposite and tapping down on it. So, I don't know, it seems to be…
It seems to be, you know, a tough slug to convince people to… to join. I'm trying to get something launched here in my own backyard that I… in the high desert of Bend.
Uh, and, you know, I'm… I'm connected now with some people who retired here. There's one guy who stepped up into our advisory team.
Uh, he's a retired Salesforce executive, and it was pretty high up in Salesforce, and… You know, he has, you know, looked at what we're doing, and he wants to help us to launch.
Uh, and get organized, so… The story resonates, you know, we have, um…
Being able to… to, uh, to get…
Now, folks interested in doing it, but the people who are on the ground and who are working, they intensely.
On a day-to-day basis, have a very difficult time to see how they can integrate with us.
Um, and how that would make sense. So, um, it's… I mean, it's extremely disturbing, you know, to watch this political process, because it's just so painful to, uh…
To see the damage these guys are doing, you know, to, uh, on a civilizational level, uh.
And how… how there is just no collective response. I mean, it's just…
Scattered opinions and scattered efforts, community-based. Nothing that has… any chance of scaling so far?
Yeah, so anyway, that's where I'm at.
Yeah, I'd like… go ahead, Sean, go ahead.
Oh, no, no, go ahead, go ahead.
Um, there are two themes that I want to touch on. One was Kevin, about what's happening in Asheville in terms of the inequities.
The systemic inequities that are baked into the system. And Klaus, you were talking a moment ago about the fact there, you know, within the.
Regenerative movement. There's splintered. I don't think that splintering is unique to that movement, it's all over the place.
And that's part of the problem of, uh, bringing people together.
To take on the systemic psychopathy that we're living through, and the systemic prejudice.
Against equity, um, you know, people have heard me talk about this before, about equity meta governance.
As a way of thinking about how to bring people together over the process rather than the content.
You know, so much content out there that, uh, we're not very good at handling the process of the content.
Unless we've session on sense-making, the thing that came up for me.
Was the notion of co-intelligence. And two nights ago, I decided to take the plunge.
And, uh, spend $200 for one month. On Perplexity AI to see whether it's really worth.
Getting access. To the additional resources that you might be able to do through it, because I'm fascinated about the whole issue of co-intelligence.
And, um, you know, I remember a while back, Scott, if he's listening.
Um, you know, looked at one of my questions and says, oh, it's too complex, and, you know, he sort of.
Thought about it, whatever. And, you know, one of the things that I've, um… I've become really interested in is how.
How we can actually… there is a sort of, um… I'm gonna exaggerate this for the sake of making a point.
That we're actually living with the, um, the… the… the cult indoctrination of a KISS principle.
And I've mentioned that the KSSS principle before, in terms of keeping sophistication, this side of simplicity, and we talked about this last time, Kraus.
Although, I think the integral framework is incredibly useful, but I think literacy level, comprehension level, is adequate.
If you want to go in the spiritual domain, absolutely, it's a useful framework for thinking about.
Different levels of consciousness, but in terms of trying to bring people together.
Um, I mean, I think that's the biggest challenge. Anyway, this is a bit of a pop query of comments here, because on Labor Day, I went to the Labor Day parade.
And a friend of mine was actually carrying the flag. Of the Dems, and… you know, uh, Mark Kelly was supposed to be in the, you know, doing an event there.
Uh, with them. And I joined him, I put my hand around him, he says, hey, where's Mark Kelly? He says, he's over there. And I said, okay.
I went over and had a chat with him. Uh, which is a re… you know, just an opportunistic thing.
And I spoke with him, and he put me in contact with his administrative assistants, and I said, I've got some ideas, are you open to them? He says, yeah, here's my administration.
So anyway, I just got a text message back from the administrative.
Assistant saying he's going to share what I, um… had worked on. And, um…
So, you know, um, you know, people say I haven't been listening to the fact that people are saying the same things. I have been listening, actually, but… You don't know how deeply I've been listening.
Or how I'm responding to it, because I haven't had a response to do it.
So, uh, when… when we go, uh, open, I can share, uh.
I did a deep dive using Perplexity, looking at this whole phenomena.
Of, uh, this KISS indoctrination that we're… entrapped with, and it's a splintering reductionist framework.
That makes it very difficult to deal with, uh, complexity. Um, and so it goes against the grain, and we have to have new learning methods.
To be able to actually get people to collaborate across the divisions.
And I think I mentioned I'm involved in… I've backed off of working with Indivisible because.
They're suffering with the same problem. They're divided. They can't get their act together either, and they're not good at having conflict. They don't know how to have healthy disagreement.
And some of the most successful change moves are the ones that actually.
Work it out. The fact that there is huge differences within.
The sort of progressive movement. You have to work it out, but people get so wrapped up in their little…
Rabbit holes that they start, you know, um, squabbling amongst themselves in a way that doesn't advance the course. Anyway.
So, um, I just wanted to chime in there with the two themes that Kevin and.
Klaus alluded to and provide a different perspective to that. And on that note, I'm done speaking.
I'm finding myself going deep on, um. On… on…
Trying to really, really understand the… the micro…
Level of cognitive. Interactions… intercognitive interactions twixt humans.
Uh, as it relates to… conversation.
Uh, and the elaboration of people's, uh, understandings and mental models during, um, conversational interactions.
Um, and interleaving those appreci… growing appreciations with. An understanding of what the technical.
Low-level technical architecture needs to be. Um, for an intercognitive, um, uh, framework.
Or, uh, um… Yeah, like, capturing that.
Traffic? Um, to support.
Uh, both synchronous and asynchronous, uh… enhancement with machine support.
Um… Yeah, I, uh, really love Kevin's remark about, uh.
About the watersheds, um… being more manageable, uh, in effect.
Um, the automatic, uh, self-organizing character of, uh, of watershed maintenance when people can communicate, uh.
Uh, gracefully. And, uh, and I think that kind of…
Um…
That kind of… clean, self-organizing.
Um, beauty. Ian, uh, uh…
In intercognitive… in the intercognitive domain, uh, is… really where the great hope is for us.
So maybe I'll, uh, I'll jump in. Um… It's been a while since I've done a check-in.
It's probably been 2 or 3 months. I've, um…
Recently lost my business partner. He, uh… He died, uh, about a month ago.
Um, it's been a slow… process, he's.
He was diagnosed with colon cancer. Stage 4, maybe about a year and a half, two years ago.
Uh, so that's been a, um… a long road for him, for us, um, our community.
And, um… come to, sort of.
Realize that it's a… sort of a double-edged sword. You know that it's gonna happen.
Um, so you, um, it kind of… slows you down, you don't want to rock the boat, you don't want to sort of start moving ahead without him.
And then, at the same time, you're… you sort of feel this angst about, um… feeling, sort of… held back in some way. Uh, it's kind of… kind of a crazy thing, and so…
There's this… all of a sudden, there's this sense of… um, sort of… release, um…
And guilt, all at the same time. It's a very interesting, uh, sensations.
Meanwhile, um. The projects have continued, uh.
The… the work on… sort of our version of Neobooks. I've updated Jerry on that, has progressed, um, I'm pretty excited about.
This idea of a neobook being not only a open. Platform, um… Where the content is open source and editable, and people can contribute to it, and so on and so forth.
But that it be multimodal. Meaning, uh, that, uh, it's…
Not just text, but audio. Memes, uh, video.
Presentations. And that all three, all of those layers, um.
Are actually related to one another, so the same… type of content in text, say a paragraph.
Might be reduced to, uh, a meme. Or, uh, to a slide.
Or 2, or, um, to audio. In the form of a… typically an audiobook.
Or even a podcast component. And that all of these things are, um…
You can go in and out of these layers. Um, as a consumer of it. And by consumer, I don't mean purchaser.
But a user. Um, and uh… So we're mocking a lot of this stuff up.
Both at the technical level. Um, and that the, um…
At the content level. Uh, we're developing something we call, uh, a life fingerprint.
Um, that tries to model. Um, what's happening in this content.
From a life perspective. What… what layer of… complexity is… is acting and, um…
Trying to get it down to a root level of definition.
Uh, so that this content can actually be related, not simply by the words, cue terms, and so on and so forth.
By the actual life flows that are happening within the content.
Or being described within the content. So, um, that feels… powerful, really complex, really difficult, but, um…
Feels like a good exploration and a good direction to go.
Ken was part of some of this work early on. Um, and uh… and we've…
Continue that work of understanding some of that, um… life functions and what these life functions do in context and so forth, so that's…
That's one of the projects. Uh, the first… thing that we're developing as a neobook in this context. We're doing these two things in parallel.
Is serving life. And serving life is, uh…
The first neobook in this model. I know we have neobooks in.
Um, the… another model of neobooks, which is just text.
Um, but this model where we have the multiple layers and the interactions and so forth.
Um, serving life, we hope to be the first book. So that piece of it is, um…
Progressing well. We now have… Um, some new case studies, um.
We've recently interviewed Kevin. Uh, for… for that.
Hunter Lovins recently, um, we interviewed, um, Alan. Savory from the savory Institute, um, as well.
Um, a number of others in the space that are. Folks that we believe are moving towards… excuse me.
Moving towards this new… way of operating that recognizes that.
What we do is serving life. Sorry.
Um, and so… that model is, uh…
It's progressing well, the book's starting to feel like a book.
Uh, in a clear narrative, at least we think so. We've had… a few readers give us some really good feedback on it.
Um, and uh… We're hopeful that we can wrap this up.
Uh, by the end of the year. Uh, whether it will be in the form of an e-book at that point, we're not sure, but at the very least, we'll have the content ready.
For it to integrate into it, and… And our vision is that anyone who's writing, who's seriously creating a book nowadays.
Is going to be… doing memes. They're going to be doing presentations, they're going to be doing audio versions of it, and that all of these things.
Have to exist anyway. And so, why not integrate them into one experience?
That, uh, people can engage. Do deep dives down into the… not only the text, but the supporting data that's behind it.
Um, and… and do superficial, just… float through the… through the memes.
Or, uh, float through the presentations. And at any time, do a deep dive into the material below it.
Uh, so that's… feels exciting to… to think of a new model of experiencing content.
Producing content and having content be… Uh, but… available to folks that don't necessarily want to just read a book.
Uh, traditionally, so… Much more to update, but I'll leave it at that, because that's a pretty long update as it is.
Thank you.
I think I'll go next, because… it kind of dovetails with what you…
We're saying, Jose. So… Last week, we were talking about.
Collective intelligence. And I've been thinking about the nature of collaboration for a couple of years.
Because I think it's… I'm having a hard time finding great examples of it.
Which says to me that I think it's more limited than we say.
I've started to think of it as… Working separately, then coming together to share, and then working separately again.
And I'm trying to find. Examples where… a group of… well…
A group of people get together and actually collaborate in a sense where it's not.
One or two working. And others being in the room.
Um, and… I think what I've… I even looked at an electronic musician who.
Has been in the game for 40 years. And he did a collaboration project. And the way it was done was that he would set up some.
Tunes, send the digital file to the other person. They would modify it.
Send it back to him. He would modify it, and they would go back and forth until they had a.
A musical piece that they liked. And I… I think about things like Wikipedia, which is sort of at the opposite end. You have.
It feels like a collaborative effort. And so it's just something I've been thinking about.
A lot is, what is the… I think we throw around the word collaboration a lot.
Without really being honest about. What the work entails, and I will leave this with the last.
It's very different from being on a team. Because I think just being on a team doesn't mean that you're…
Collaborating, in my sense of it. It's… it's more that… The genesis of the idea and the actual work is something that.
Is two minds as one, sort of, and I've experienced it, but only.
In fleeting moments where. My brain and someone else's brain are…
Are in… we both get it. And we're finishing each other's senses… sentences and things like that, but… It seems to me to be a rare thing that we keep seeking.
We, meaning… I just see collaboration as a skill that…
People seem to want to develop. And yet, maybe…
It's not what we think it is, and so… We're trying to create something that might not.
Actually be a way that people work together.
I love our sharing of our… projects and obsessions and.
Scary life events, like concussions and flooding. And all these other sorts of things. Thank you for all for showing up wholeheartedly.
You may hear it in my voice, but April and I have been down with a bug since about the 22nd.
Of August, so it's been a while. And this feels like a familiar bug. April came back from a trip and basically.
Brought it home, and I nursed her for a couple days, and then I came down with it.
And for me, the day I came down with it, I put a marker two weeks later in my calendar, which is still next week.
That said, is my bug gone? Because, in my experience, this is 2 weeks of coughing miserably.
Parking up phlegm. Uh, in this case, like, my right eye has all tier depth, so apparently there's a bacterial infection that's accompanying this, that's… moves from eye to eye or something, and… I don't know what, but it's like a couple very uncomfortable nights, but we can work, we can do stuff.
Luckily, we don't have any performances that we have to miss because we're sick or anything like that, so it's all good, but… But we've been feeling kind of low.
Um, Hank Kuhn, who's not here today, but who is a frequenter of OGM, and I have had a couple calls around UpKeto.
Uh, which got mentioned somewhere, I don't remember… where it showed up, but Hank was like, I love this, like, up-Keto idea, let's talk. So we've had a couple of separate calls.
Uh, Up Keto is a neologism. Uh, it is a concatenation of upward spiral or uplift, and Aikido, which is my sport.
And, uh, we've talked about Aikido, uh. A few times in OGM, but Up Keto is just meant to be a practice. At this point, it's a thought experiment. Like.
What would a practice be like if your intention was to improve everything you touch?
To help upward spiral happen all over the time. With Aikido principles, meaning not coming in and bludgeoning things, but blending with sensing the energies, blending with, and then seeing what improvement went.
And improve is the best word I've been able to find for it so far, but it's a really touchy word.
Because what I think might be an improvement of the situation might piss everybody off.
Uh, et cetera, et cetera. And then there are knock-on effects and so forth. So you've got to be thoughtful about this, but.
But putting a… cracking a joke or listening to the cashier at the store and cracking a joke and putting a smile on their face.
Is of keto. Um, free hugs is up keto, and kind of non-controversial, because people can choose to walk up and hug you or not.
Whatever, but… but this notion that you might walk around and try to make everything better than you touch, I like a lot.
And so, um, there's a baby… there's a fledgling website at UpKeto.com, but we started talking, and then I sat down with Claude.
Not my friend Claude, but rather the new alien intelligence Claude.
And froze some of these things to Claude, and Claude was, like, wonderful about this, and OMG, holy hell.
You know, folded and asked a couple different questions, grew the whole thing, and I'm like, oh, this is really pretty good. I like this a ton.
So expect to see some of that at some point. Uh, and so Hank and I, I created a private group on LinkedIn, if anybody wants to talk about UpKeto, when we released the hounds.
Of chat at the end of, uh, the check-in, I will post that link in the chat.
Um, so that we can sort of figure this thing out and formulate it, and propagate it, and do whatever… whatever… whatever it wants to be, I'm really interested in helping it become, as long as it's not evil.
Uh, because I think the general concept… then it… maybe it needs a secret handshake.
Or a little pin or something that you, you know, you wear. I don't know.
So that you know that, oh, this isn't a keto practitioner, they should be careful, they're a master of the dark arts of up keto.
Um, I think things like this ought also be, like, fun, and slightly conspiratorial is okay.
And then I realized also in the framing of UpKeto that there are some principles of UpKeto.
And that they overlapped heavily, heavily, heavily with my principles of design from trust.
That I've been formulating Design from Trust for a while, but lately I've been focusing on writing out.
And we'll soon be posting. Um, my method of posting is so fucking slow, because.
I… I write out the tendrils of an octopus of an idea, and then I need to finish all the tendrils before I post the main idea, because you're gonna go out to all the different little tendrils.
And it gets complicated, and it winds up a little hard to finish, but… Um, I'll post a link to the Principles of Design from Trust, which start with the very simple, assume good faith.
Or good intent, whichever word you prefer. But assume good faith is, like, the grounding principle of design from trust, and it's a nice principle for Akito as well. And there's a bunch of others.
In particular, in my brain, there's a thought of inspirations. For the principles of Design from Trust.
Which points to a… I think at this point, very beautiful.
Curated collection of other prints, other useful groups of principles from other groups around the world.
That are awesome, that are just wonderful. So I've been borrowing from some of those, and… And figuring out, like, what this might look like, but… anybody who's interested, uh, join the group or get in touch, or whatever, but it's been really fun to think about these things, because I'm trying.
Last thought. I'm trying really hard to figure out. Positive things to be and do.
At this particular moment of multiple crises. I'm trying to figure out a bunch of ways to walk into the world, like, that might attract people to go, yeah, yeah, yeah, I want to build, I want to do, I want to improve.
And this is just… this is one of them. So, with that, I am… Today, so far. Complete.
So I found myself in a space of emptying out. We have our appointment at the Spanish Consulate a week and a half from.
No? Um, been going through the house, downsizing, selling stuff off.
Going through my life, going through my memories, um… And I know that there's a new adventure coming, but right now, it's about…
Letting things go. Um, and it's painful.
And, um… And it feels somehow appropriate to the…
Times in which I live, that so much is passing. Trying to honor things that, um, have been a part of my life, both the good and the bad, and the ugly.
So, um… I'm just in a… in a very interesting place that I'm not used to being in.
When I took my coaching course 25 years ago. Um.
I was that… If you know the Zen story about the professor who went to meet the Zen master, and the professor's talking and talking, and the Zen master's pouring the tea into the cup until it's overflowing.
If you need to empty your mind out, and the first thing I was assigned after being given a bunch of books was.
Mediafast, you need to just let yourself settle. So I'm in that space right now of letting things settle.
Again. And not trying to take new things in, but to just honor what's gone before, and release it with grace.
Um, which is not easy. Has a lot of poignancy. I've been in Marin County for 35 years, and I'm looking at leaving here in the next.
Between 3 and 6 months, and it's becoming very real. Someone came and bought all my CDs this.
This past week. 980 CDs gone from my living room. It's like… It's naked in here, you know, and I have someone come in to look at my book collection, and…
So it's getting really very real. Um, because we're not going to bring a lot of stuff with us. We're bringing, you know, cookware.
Got in my cast iron pans and my pots and my knives.
Um, clothing and artwork, and everything else has gone by the wayside.
Um, so… I was not a Zen practitioner, I was a Vipassana practitioner, but my life is becoming very Zen of how do I just release this, and…
Live a simpler way. Which also feels appropriate, too.
Moving into the last phase of my life, the third act, you know, this is… This is it, this is the last hurrah, you know, moving new culture, new country, new language, new people.
Um. And I find that's giving me a strange detachment to what's going on.
In this country right now, because I am… completely and totally outraged.
Um, and completely and totally… Devastated?
Like, how the hell did this happen? And where?
Is the collective response that says. Fuck no!
Not seeing it. Um, and if I were not leaving, I'd be a lot more involved, but I am leaving, and so it's like, okay, I don't have the.
Bandwidth right now to be too involved in that. And I… I feel some guilt about that.
You know, um, I love this country. Of everything that I was gifted, I'm aware of how much of it came on the backs of.
Exploitation of both land and people elsewhere. But, you know, um… I've had a really great life here, as has…
You know, so many people that I know, and… That seems to be dissolving, and maybe that's what's needed, you know? Civilization, as Gandhi said, is a great idea. I'm not seeing it.
Um, we're not being very civil here these days. And, um… I'm very concerned about what's going to happen, and I want to be far away, uh, as things continue to slide.
More and more increasingly… accelerated downhill.
Um, so it's just a whole lot of shit going on.
Uh, at multiple levels. And…
I'm glad I have my practices, you know, to create the space to hold this, and not be overwhelmed by it.
Um, and I'm glad I have people in my life to talk to.
So that I don't get, uh… too overwhelmed by it, but I am overwhelmed by it, you know? It's… it's… there's only so much I can let in, and handle before I have to say.
Enough. And the emptying out feels like part of that process of, in order to be able to.
Hold what's going on in the world, I have to queer out a bunch of shit from my life.
Uh, physically and internally. So, that's what's…
Going on with me these days.
If I can jump in here, I've, uh… Sincerely apologize for coming in late.
Um, from a few things that have been said. Uh, I feel like I missed. One of the main things I would have liked to have heard, which was Kevin talking about watersheds.
But what Ken just said. Reminded me… About a year ago, I was out in North Carolina. I live in Oregon.
Very rarely get to North Carolina. But since I was there, with a little bit of time to spare.
I looked up Kevin and reached out to him and asked him if I could.
To meet him in person. He and I had a really nice… chat on the banks of the Sundanoa River.
On his property. And, uh, what sticks in my mind.
Was Kevin mentioned, the concept of retreat. Kind of like, um…
Prompting me a little bit, like, hey, is this a… is this a topic that you and I should pick up on, and… bring to OGM, given our shared interest in watersheds and water and hydrology and whatnot.
But, um, Ken, what you just said… strikes me, you know, like, so often.
We look at the world around us, and we… we noticed the changes that everyone else needs to make.
Um, but this letting go. That you're doing… Seems to me like it's exactly what we all need to be doing. Uh, maybe not literally, like, the same way.
But I think… I think this purging and letting go. And you're doing it at a very, very complete level, you know, it sounds like, and I think that's wonderful. Like, I see that as being…
Like, uh… like, almost what's necessary for rebirth.
Because we can… we can conceptually say, like, we're being reborn or whatever, you know?
But if we're staying in the same domicile with all the same… you know, trappings and belongings, and friends, and…
And everything else, um. You know, we're really not giving up anything, right? Like, we're just…
We're just holding on to what we have. And, as John Mayer says, waiting for the world to change.
So, I just want to applaud, you know, like, what I hear.
What I hear you saying… Including the stepping into the…
You know, the void, or the vortex, or whatever that comes with that, right? Like… Yeah, like, if you're gonna… If you're gonna truly…
Let go, and release, and… and… you know, whether you call it a Zen practice, right, like, whatever label you put on it, right? Like.
I think… I think you're doing… I think you're doing… and I'll just extend that to… I feel like each person that I've heard talk, like Josue, and.
Uh, I came on when Klaus was in the middle of his deal, so I don't know that I heard it all.
But then, Jerry, what he said, I feel like every single person.
That has spoken this morning, has spoken to me, in a way, of… Like, everything you've said has resonated with a piece of what I'm personally doing and going through and working through.
Um… and so I guess I just want to say, like, we're doing it, you know? Like, each of us, in our own way, we're doing what we need to do.
And maybe… maybe the number one ingredient that… that… That needs to accompany all that is the…
Okay-ness with it, right? Like, the. The letting go… so that… so that we can see, like, you know, on the panarchy curve, this is the…
This is the collapse, or the deconstruction, or the… whatever you want to call it, that has to proceed reconstruction. Like, you can't… you can't…
Reconstruct… and hold everything… everything that we were already…
You know, all our norms or whatever, we can't hold all those constant and reconstruct, you know? It's like… Reconstruction has to arise from some degree of.
Disruption and dissolution, and… Anyway, so I just, like, feeling super grateful for…
For calling in when I did, and yeah, regretful that I missed part of what was said here, but, um… Yeah, just thanks… thanks for everybody, and…
I say can, you know, like, more power to you, man. I think you're doing a great thing.
I can give a real quick report from Washington, D.C. I really apologize for.
Being late, I was in a meeting on. The future of data policy, global… And it seemed important, and it was. Um…
I won't spend much time on the political. Um, you've all been reading both the news and the analysis of the news.
A lot of the posts I see. Are trying to decide whether this is…
The end of democracy, or just another… Donald Trump and family con job. Um, but anyway.
I won't go there. It is causing a great deal of depression. A lot of people staying up late at night, or.
Waking up in the middle of the night, and… trying to make sense of it, or perhaps figure out what they should do. Uh, on my own side, um.
I just got back from Manila and Taipei, had a. Very eventful and absolutely fascinating opportunity there to meet some new people.
Um. If anybody has heard of the HIRA.
Network. H-y-r-a. And I think their website is HIRATECH, H-Y-R-A-T-E-C-K.
They're based in Vietnam and Dubai. And uh… they string together a lot of buzzwords. Initially, I was incredibly skeptical, because it was blockchain enabling edge computing for AI.
You know? But they're doing something with that, and they have a vision, and they have some smart people involved. So, uh…
Be interested in anybody's, uh… take on that.
On the personal side, I've been dealing with some strange symptoms lately, and.
Met with a neurologist and a neurosurgeon. And, um… This is one of these gray zones where you really can't figure out what's going on. I also learned I had Lyme disease.
Either a month ago or 10 years ago. Uh, which can cause neurological issues. But, uh, anyway, we're doing some tests, and we're trying to struggle through that.
Uh, I'm a… Firm believer in medical science. I just don't like to have to use it.
And when the numbers are like, well, we could do this, and there's an 80% chance, and oh, we don't really know what's causing this.
I get skeptical, and I get anxious, so that's sort of where I'm at. I will keep you informed maybe in a month.
Uh, if we learn more. Uh, I'm also headed to the northern… to the Dolomites in northern Italy in about 10 days, and very much looking forward to spending a week with my wife and four of our.
Best friends, hiking among… some of the most beautiful, uh, scenery in Italy, which, of course.
Says it a lot. And I have a quick stop in Zurich and might see my… the family that my…
Mothers, grandfather left behind when he… left, uh, central Switzerland to come to Minnesota.
Anyway, that's where I'm at, and uh… We live in interesting times.
And thanks for all the things that people are posting on the list. It's, uh… It's quite a grab bag.
Mike, thank you. Uh, I think that concludes the check-in round. Uh, Doug and Stacy said in the chat that they are good to go.
I think we've heard from everybody, so I'm going to release the hounds.
And see what we'd like to talk about. I will put in links, uh… to… oh, that's right, Scott, my apologies.
Where's Scott? There's Scott. Um… Did you check in?
I'm right here. Yes, I did. I talked about collaboration.
I thought you did. That's right, good. That collaboration may not be the thing we think it is.
Yes, I'm all covered, thank you. Correct, yes.
Thank you, and I'd love to talk more about that. Um, I had a brief question for Klaus.
Uh, which was, um, I created recently in my brain two thoughts, um.
Basically, things that RFK might fix. At HHS and things that RFK is fucking up at HHS. And…
The list of things that he's fucking up include vaccines, research, medical research data, there's a whole mess of them.
But things he might fix are things that I think we would broadly agree with him on.
About, you know, microplastics and the water supply, endocrine disruptors. Food dyes, whatever, whatever, and I'm one… and I'm wondering, Klaus, is there a way for even Sierra Club.
To pick a couple of the things that are on the not-the-naughty list, but the good list.
And just push hard to make those things happen. Just make sure the hell that the food… the food system doesn't resist as much, and that some of these things get done, because.
Some of what I've been reading is that. Um, there's very effective resistance by a lot of the big food companies to some of the efforts that RFK is trying to, you know, push through, so they're getting watered down, which is how.
This stuff often… all too often works, but I'm wondering if you break down… some of that stuff is, like, on… on… The progressive agenda as well.
Well, I was, uh, uh… one of the voices in the Sarah Club promoting Kennedy in the hope that, um.
His ideas would… take hold, and uh…
Um, and there are, you know, quite a few, uh, still hoping for that to happen, and… Uh, and lobbying in this, but…
I'm increasingly pessimistic. It seems like the industry is totally dominating the conversation.
Mm-hmm.
Um, so this, this whole idea of, um. Reducing the amount of highly processed foods, particularly towards children.
Um, which, you know, would have had impacts on. The agricultural system, right? Because as you're reducing.
Highly processed foods, that means you're reducing high fructose corn syrup, and.
Uh, now, uh… corn, uh, uh, based, uh, uh, processed foods and so on.
Uh, yeah, I know the pushback is… is fierce, and the voices of Sierra Club and others.
Of being dragged out here. I don't see it happening. Uh, I think this entire RFK.
Phenomena is, uh… is, uh, turning into a pile of, uh, you-know-what.
Alas. Yeah, thanks, Laz. That's too bad. Um, Sean, please?
Can I jump in? Because I need to leave quickly and just have a quick statement.
Yeah…
Go for it, Kevin, if you don't mind.
Yeah, uh, Plex is a good thing. I'm willing to help keep it going if other people want to do that. You know, I just see it… Back in my days as a community weekly newspaper editor, and the people from South Fulton would reach out to Miss Irma Estes, and she would say, their cousins motored in from Memphis, etc.
And so I'm willing to help, you know, just, uh… do that, and also add that I would, you know, when people say things on this list, I may reach out to you to say, please say more about that, you know, like Scott, say more about collaboration or something.
So I would add to what Pete did, but I don't want to do it myself.
But I want to be part of doing it, because it's something I.
Like to do. So…
That sounds awesome, Kevin. I think that's energy Pete would welcome. He's been looking for people to sort of help collect and.
Yeah, he wants… I can't make it into a Plex thing, but I could… I could reach out to folks and just do a, you know, twice-a-month community news from the.
Open, uh, gambling mind, or whatever we are. From my gun, yep. Okay.
From Lake Wobegon. Yep. And all the children are above average.
Yep.
Um, no, back to you, Smurp.
Hello there. Um, I would just… Just like to comment on the, uh, on the delicious, um…
Complexity slash plate that, uh, human beings in general, and us in this group are, uh, suffering.
Of, uh, of, um, uh, this business about. Identifying when we're talking about the same thing, and when we're talking about different things, and how to even manage to.
To distinguish those phenomena. Every single word that Jose said earlier.
Um, I could have said or have been sane for. A decade, and uh… and so I say a decade because, uh, because.
I'd been gearing up to, uh, to do, um, uh, to… start capturing the real-time sort of video aspect of our inter… of interactions for a long time, but then finally managed to start implementing some.
Hyper… so-called hype… I'm calling it hyper-video. Is the way I refer to that.
Um, that, uh, capability suite that, uh, that Jose was identifying.
Um, in effect, capturing our interactions all the way from the real time.
Um, down through the extractions of, uh, of… of the verbiage, uh, down through, and I think maybe, maybe…
I'm going a little farther than is typical here, down to the conceptual.
As a semantic extraction. So, in other words, into a machine-understandable representation that's ontology-based.
Okay? So that's the span as far as I'm concerned, is all the way from, um, uh.
Real-time interaction capture. Um, down through the full… down through the explicit conceptual that is graphable, extractable, navigable, summarizable, etc.
Um, in a deep machine-supported way. Um, and so… so yeah, I…
Jose, oh my god, let's make… let's make beautiful, uh, uh, nerd music together, uh, because I… We shouldn't be… we shouldn't be in separate.
Um, silos here. If, uh, if we're doing the same work.
Um, let's figure out how to make some magic together. And I'd really love to take up, uh, Scott's point about, uh.
About, uh, what is collaboration? Is it really what we think it is?
We need to get so deep. So much deeper about, uh, about, um, the micro…
Microcognitive. Interactions.
That… that constitute. Um, the integration of our mental models.
Because really, that's what… that's what this is all about. It is about how our.
How our individual understandings. Are informed.
By… by… by our onboarding of others' insights, and.
And how we can manage to. Um, in the… in the limit and in the large, um.
Aggregate those understandings as a superposition across all minds. Of, um, into what I would refer to as the merged mental model.
Uh, and so that… that's, that's the work that I'm deeply trying to do, is… is… is make that repository.
So that… so that… We're migrating from, ultimately, from natural language.
As this, uh, um, loose and floppy, uh, interaction modality, uh, into a.
In effect, a shared address space. Interaction.
On the merged mental model, and I know that's just… Sounds ludicrously abstract, but… but that's…
That's what humanity is straining for. Even if it doesn't know that.
Okay, uh, over.
Yeah, Sean, thank you. And I think you and Jose both know that Marc Antoine Perrin is a fellow traveler on your journeys.
And I'm now going to reflect and say that it feels to me like the three of you.
This is gonna sound worse than I mean it. The three of you have been working very hard for a very long time to manually do.
What training in LLM actually does now.
Yes and no. Yes and no. I…
The token… the unknowable token vector space that's inside of an LM and gives us back.
This weird magic of, oh my god, pull thoughts and blah blah.
Is doing a lot of what the three of you have been researching and figuring out.
Marc Antoine and Jack Park and I are working very, very closely together, trying to go super deep and establish a, uh.
Cool.
A ground for that kind of intercognitive exchange that is deep and solid, like a.
A granite upon which such modeling can occur. Um, but, uh, but for clarity, I would distinguish, Jerry, between LLM.
Um, and LCM, where LCM is, uh, is the, uh, um… is terminology that, uh, I… I'm hearing come out of Meta.
Um, and what they're… one of the things they're trying to do is, uh, is move to a cons… a modeling.
Um, a large modeling foundation, as opposed to a large language foundation.
Because of the… of the ambiguities and the kind of the rough statistical quality of LLM approaches.
Where instead, I would… I would suggest that… that that's not really… that language is the interchange modality.
But concepts are what we really want to interconnect. And so we need to be so strict with ourselves about distinguishing between those different modalities.
Um, and we have very little time left in this call, and I love… I love this particular thread.
But I'm unclear on that, and would like to learn more. So, let's bounce to… we've got Gil Scott Rick.
And maybe a poem.
Yeah, let me try to be compact. Sean, it doesn't sound ludicrous, but I've got other things to say about it, which I'll come back to in a minute. I want to stir 3 or 4 other pots.
That people have set boiling on the stove. Jerry, I'm intrigued by your problem with Improve.
As being maybe too directive, but I wonder how else a human being can orient in that. Like, better is the same thing as improve, and… And it's all subjective, and, you know, there's always the possibility that one person's better as somebody else is worse, and so there you go.
Which, of course, brings us to the RFK Jr. Thing, and the challenge of… of dancing with people where you agree on some things and disagree on some things, and we're in a moment in our culture where it seems to be all or nothing, black or white. If somebody's wrong on something, they're wrong on everything.
But yesterday, we heard Marjorie Taylor Greene saying she's prepared to stand up in Congress and read the stuff that the Epstein victims have gathered.
Into the public record. So, you know. The strange thing about United Fronts is that you don't have to agree on everything.
We're in a topsy-turvy world, is all I can tell.
Yeah, and um, um… what's her name? Blanking my name, um…
Bernice Reagan, one of the founders of Sweet Honey and the Rock, was in the Freedom Singers in the early 1960s, and the Civil Rights Movement.
Notably said at a conference in California back 30-some-odd years ago. He said, if you're in a coalition.
And you're not deeply uncomfortable all the time. Your coalition's not big enough.
And I think that's a challenge for us to consider now, because we're in a cultural moment that goes the other way.
Scott, collaboration really resonated for me, the notion of collaboration as a skill.
To develop. And a culture to develop, and ways of speaking and listening and being.
That enable that, uh, is rich territory, and I hope we come back to that at some point.
And, um, um… Sean and Joe say the hyper video, when I think about… I'm trying to write a book or two, and I keep on reminding myself, what if it's not a book? Book is, like, in quotes all the time, because that's one part of the…
Artifact web that we're putting together here. I'm concerned, though. About the notion of… trying to get it all machine understandable, because I suspect there are things that the machines cannot and will never understand.
And I think that's very important territory. And I'm not… I'm not drawn to trying to cram that into machine-understandable form. I'm trying… I'm concerned with finding ways that we can enrich that dimension of human.
Being in the world of AIs and emerging alien intelligence and so forth. And so that's a mystery.
For me that, uh, that's really juicy. And I suspect you guys are oriented to that. Now, Jerry, who is the third fellow traveler you mentioned?
Marc-antoine Perron.
Oh, okay, okay, great. Anyhow, I'm not prepared to dive into this project with you, but I'm very interested in staying aware of what you're up to.
Brilliant. Brilliant, brilliant, brilliant. Um, Scott?
Thank you all.
They are muted.
Very quickly, I also agree with Gil that the nature of improve doesn't bother me much.
Um, I think if you're… open to feedback, you do your best, and…
We're all searching for what better is. Um, so I'm good with that. Um, Ken.
I made a… had a realization years ago that after leaving school, the only clean break we get is taking a new job.
And I realized that I missed it. It was the semester break, it was the end, it was the new books, it was… you know what?
However that went. It's done. And now I'm…
And I… I missed it, because I was always working, and I never had that… that break, you know, when you work someplace for a decade, it's just the same. So…
That's enough for me.
Scott, thank you. And, um, if I may say, I think your question about is collaboration a thing, might be next Thursday's call topic. It sounds like a really nice thing to dive into, so… If you want to say… if you wouldn't mind sending me a message with a little bit, just a couple paragraphs on what you mean by your question.
So that I aim toward what you mean, not toward what I'm thinking you mean.
That would be great. Um, Rick, please.
Yeah, I'm glad the scene of the… collaboration is ricocheting, because I think it's one of those things that's… it's quite complex, and we… we need to be much better at it.
And to, uh, highlight a point that Gil was talking about, having a coalition big enough so you can have.
More healthy disagreements, because that's where the greatest learning happens. I'll put in a point of view of difference here, which we won't have time to discuss.
But, uh, when I heard Jose talking about, um, content curation.
I'm actually more interested in process curation. And for that reason, I'm not interested in neobooks. I'm interested in neo-learning, which is more dynamic from my perspective, learning.
And thinking about how we can use platforms for that, so it's much more agile.
Uh, everything you said, I agree with. The elements of it, but… take it to the process level, because if we can't get our process sorted out, we can't do our collaboration. All the content and collaborations.
Is useless unless we know how to do the process. So, um, just to demonstrate that I do listen to people about their criticisms about my compound, uh.
Philosophical questions. I put a link in there, uh, for people who are curious.
To understand compound philosophical questions, and the reasons why we have to shift to slow thinking to deal with complexity.
And lastly, I go to a group, which some of you may know about, it's called CHO out of Belgium, which is a change management.
Change agent group, and their focus is on collaboration. I'll put the link in there.
Their meeting is on, uh, Friday mornings at, uh. I think it's 9… 8.45, uh, Eastern Time. I'll put the link in there as well, if people would like to.
Learn from a European perspective about their thinking about, uh, collaboration, and that's what they're… Um, it's an interesting group, anyway, I'll put that link in as well.
Thank you, Rick. Stacy, you're going to have the penultimate word.
You know, real quick, because I was triggered by Marjorie Taylor Green, who I obviously would not want to be as a, you know, sit down to dinner with her, or be near her.
That being said, I want to just highlight the importance. She really is a true believer, and I just want to.
Highlight how important it is to deal with people that are true to their beliefs, whether or not we like them or not.
To know that what we say is what they're gonna stand by, which is not what we have with most of the politicians.
So I just want to, once again. Reiterate that, even in dealing with.
Who we deal with in our lives. Over.
Thank you very much, and… and… There's something about people being really authentic and true to their core, even if we hate what they're saying, that's important, and…
We shouldn't just ignore or wander away from. So, thank you.
Sir Ken.
This poem is called Game by Maxine Koeman. Before he died, Archduke Ferdinand… Archduke Franz Ferdinand gunned down in Sarajevo to jumpstart World War I.
Bragged that he had shot 3,000 stags, and the miscellaneous foxes, geese, wolves, and boars.
Driven toward him by beaters. Staught men, he ordered to flush the creatures from their cover into his sights, a tradition.
Of the British aristocracy, carried on. Further aped by rich Americans, from Teddy R. To Ernest H.
Something Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia, Padgison of a Sicilian immigrant.
Indulged in years later, when he had scores of farm-raised birds beaten from their cages and scared up for him to shoot down, which brought him an inner joy.
What happened to him when he was a boy?
God damn. Well, Ken, please, again?
That's, like, wow. That's just, like, a layup poem, somehow. It's like… Completely non-obvious, but it's like, OMG, they went right to the heart of something important, so…
Wow.
Game, Maxine Kuhman. Before he died, Archduke Franz Ferdinand gunned down in Sarajevo to jumpstart World War I.
Bragged that he had shot 3,000 stags and a miscellany of foxes.
Geese, wolves, and boars. Driven toward him by beaters. Stout men, he ordered to flush creatures from their cover into his sights, a tradition of the British aristocracy, carried on.
Further aped by rich Americans from Teddy R. To Ernest H. Something Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia.
Pudgy son of Sicilian immigrants indulged in years later. When he had scores of farm-raised birds beaten from their cages and scared up for him to shoot down, which brought him an inner joy.
What happened to him when he was a boy?
Just awesome. Thank you. Sobering.
Thank you.
Thank you all. I think we've done it.
Again, the author's name again?
Maxine Kuman, uh, K-U-M-I-N.
Thank you.
Yeah, K-U-M-I-N, Maxine Koeman. And he will, as usual, post the poem to the OGM list so you can have it later.
I think we have a nice topic for next Thursday. And, um, thank you for all showing up so beautifully.
The ladies of OGM were underrepresented today, which makes me sad, but um… So it was, and…
There we